In this assessment, you will use will be tested on your knowledge of javascript
concepts from Section 2 of the video lectures. Answer them in YOUR OWN WORDS.
Fill free to provide examples to help illustrate your train of thought.

1. What is a syntax parser?
Syntax parser is an intermediate program that reads and converts the javascript
text to what computer understands, by producing a data structure which tells the
structure of the program written. Therefore, syntax parser tells if a javascript
code/syntax is correct or  not.


2. What is a lexical environment?
The location or path where a code is found physically in a written program
determines how it is executed and that defines its lexical environment.
example:
let person = {
        name: "Eric",
        gender: "m"
}
from the code above, name and gender property sits lexically
inside the person object.
lexical environment is where a code is written and what surrounds it.


3. What is the execution context?
In a program or code snippet, which code to execute first and in what order
is managed by execution context. it simply encapsulates to help order or manage
the running code.


4. What are name/value pairs?
Name/value pairs in a given context is assigning a value or more name/values
pairs to a particular name.



5. What is an Object?
An object entails having many name value pairs held by one unique name.
example:
my dog is an object because it has properties/attributes and behaviors(methods)
its properties incudes its long tongue, two eyes, etc.
behaviors includes its ability to bark, run, etc
any variable name that will hold my dog, its properties and methods,
is an object.


6. What does it mean that something is "Global"?
something is global if it can be accessed in any part of the program.


7. Explain how hoisting works in Javascript.
Hoisting is the ability of the javascript to execute a function while the
function call is at top but the function statement(not function expression)
itself is below.
example:
test(); //hoisting
function test(){
let b="hello word"
console.log(b);
}


8. What does undefined mean?
undefined means that a location has been mapped for a variable in the memory,
but its type and value has not been determined/known. Hence, one can say that
undefined is the value js assigns to variable that is declared but has no
data type or value.



9. Explain the concept of Scope?
Scope is the area/domain which the life span of a variable only exist.
A variable can be defined in either local or global scope, which establishes
the variables’ accessibility from different scopes during runtime. Any defined
global variable, meaning any variable declared outside of a function body will
live throughout runtime and can be accessed and altered in any scope.
ES6 introduced the let and const keywords that support the declaration of block
scope local variables. This means the variable will be confined to the scope of
a block that it is defined in, such as an if statement or for loop and will not
be accessible outside of the opening and closing curly braces of the block.
This is contrary to var declarations which are accessible outside blocks they
are defined in.



10. Javascript is single threaded. What does this mean?
This means that javascript does one command/code execution at a time, which
 entails that it won't run parallel code execution.

11. What is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous?
synchronous  is the execution of codes line by line while asynchronous is the
multiple line execution of codes. javascript is said to be synchronous because
it executes one line of a codes at a time.
